Annie Proulx 
Brokeback Mountain 

Ennis Del Mar wakes before five, wind rocking the trailer, hissing in 
around the aluminum door and window frames. The shirts hanging 
on a nail shudder slightly in the draft. He gets up, scratching the grey 
wedge of belly and pubic hair, shuffles to the gas burner, pours 
leftover coffee in a chipped enamel pan; the flame swathes it in blue. 
He turns on the tap and urinates in the sink, pulls on his shirt and 
jeans, his worn boots, stamping the heels against the floor to get 
them full on. The wind booms down the curved length of the trailer 
and under its roaring passage he can hear the scratching of fine 
gravel and sand. It could be bad on the highway with the horse 
trailer. He has to be packed and away from the place that morning. 
Again the ranch is on the market and they've shipped out the last of 
the horses, paid everybody off the day before, the owner saying, 
"Give em to the real estate shark, I'm out a here," dropping the keys 
in Ennis's hand. He might have to stay with his married daughter 
until he picks up another job, yet he is suffused with a sense of 
pleasure because Jack Twist was in his dream. 
The stale coffee is boiling up but he catches it before it goes over the 
side, pours it into a stained cup and blows on the black liquid, lets a 
panel of the dream slide forward. If he does not force his attention 
on it, it might stoke the day, rewarm that old, cold time on the 
mountain when they owned the world and nothing seemed wrong. 
The wind strikes the trailer like a load of dirt coming off a dump 
truck, eases, dies, leaves a temporary silence. 

E

They were raised on small, poor ranches in opposite corners of the 
state, Jack Twist in Lightning Flat up on the Montana border, Ennis 
del Mar from around Sage, near the Utah line, both high school 
dropout country boys with no prospects, brought up to hard work 
and privation, both rough-mannered, rough-spoken, inured to the 
stoic life. Ennis, reared by his older brother and sister after their 
parents drove off the only curve on Dead Horse Road leaving them 
twenty-four dollars in cash and a two-mortgage ranch, applied at age 
fourteen for a hardship license that let him make the hour-long trip 
from the ranch to the high school. The pickup was old, no heater, 
one windshield wiper and bad tires; when the transmission went 
there was no money to fix it. He had wanted to be a sophomore, felt 
the word carried a kind of distinction, but the truck broke down 
short of it, pitching him directly into ranch work. 
In 1963 when he met Jack Twist, Ennis was engaged to Alma Beers. 
Both Jack and Ennis claimed to be saving money for a small spread; 
in Ennis's case that meant a tobacco can with two five-dollar bills 
inside. That spring, hungry for any job, each had signed up with 
Farm and Ranch Employment --they came together on paper as 
herder and camp tender for the same sheep operation north of Signal. 
The summer range lay above the tree line on Forest Service land on 
Brokeback Mountain. It would be Jack Twist's second summer on 
the mountain, Ennis's first. Neither of them was twenty. 
They shook hands in the choky little trailer office in front of a table 
littered with scribbled papers, a Bakelite ashtray brimming with 
stubs. The venetian blinds hung askew and admitted a triangle of 
white light, the shadow of the foreman's hand moving into it. Joe 
Aguirre, wavy hair the color of cigarette ash and parted down the 
middle, gave them his point of view. 
"Forest Service got designated campsites on the allotments. Them 
camps can be a couple a miles from where we pasture the sheep. Bad 
predator loss, nobody near lookin after em at night. What I want, 
camp tender in the main camp where the Forest Service says, but the 

HERDER" --pointing at Jack with a chop of his hand --"pitch a pup 
tent on the q.t. with the sheep, out a sight, and he's goin a SLEEP 
there. Eat supper, breakfast in camp, but SLEEP WITH THE 
SHEEP, hundred percent, NO FIRE, don't leave NO SIGN. Roll up 
that tent every mornin case Forest Service snoops around. Got the 
dogs, your .30-.30, sleep there. Last summer had goddamn near 
twenty-five percent loss. I don't want that again. YOU," he said to 
Ennis, taking in the ragged hair, the big nicked hands, the jeans torn, 
button-gaping shirt, "Fridays twelve noon be down at the bridge 
with your next week list and mules. Somebody with supplies'll be 
there in a pickup." He didn't ask if Ennis had a watch but took a 
cheap round ticker on a braided cord from a box on a high shelf, 
wound and set it, tossed it to him as if he weren't worth the reach. 
"TOMORROW MORNIN we'll truck you up the jump-off." Pair of 
deuces going nowhere. 
They found a bar and drank beer through the afternoon, Jack telling 
Ennis about a lightning storm on the mountain the year before that 
killed forty-two sheep, the peculiar stink of them and the way they 
bloated, the need for plenty of whiskey up there. He had shot an 
eagle, he said, turned his head to show the tail feather in his hatband. 
At first glance Jack seemed fair enough with his curly hair and quick 
laugh, but for a small man he carried some weight in the haunch and 
his smile disclosed buckteeth, not pronounced enough to let him eat 
popcorn out of the neck of a jug, but noticeable. He was infatuated 
with the rodeo life and fastened his belt with a minor bull-riding 
buckle, but his boots were worn to the quick, holed beyond repair 
and he was crazy to be somewhere, anywhere else than Lightning 
Flat. 
Ennis, high-arched nose and narrow face, was scruffy and a little 
cave-chested, balanced a small torso on long, caliper legs, possessed 
a muscular and supple body made for the horse and for fighting. His 
reflexes were uncommonly quick and he was farsighted enough to 
dislike reading anything except Hamley's saddle catalog. 

The sheep trucks and horse trailers unloaded at the trailhead and a 
bandy-legged Basque showed Ennis how to pack the mules, two 
packs and a riding load on each animal ring-lashed with double 
diamonds and secured with half hitches, telling him, "Don't never 
order soup. Them boxes a soup are real bad to pack." Three puppies 
belonging to one of the blue heelers went in a pack basket, the runt 
inside Jack's coat, for he loved a little dog. Ennis picked out a big 
chestnut called Cigar Butt to ride, Jack a bay mare who turned out to 
have a low startle point. The string of spare horses included a 
mouse-colored grullo whose looks Ennis liked. Ennis and Jack, the 
dogs, horses and mules, a thousand ewes and their lambs flowed up 
the trail like dirty water through the timber and out above the tree 
line into the great flowery Meadows and the coursing, endless wind. 
They got the big tent up on the Forest Service's platform, the kitchen 
and grub boxes secured. Both slept in camp that first night, Jack 
already bitching about Joe Aguirre's sleep-with-the-sheep-and-no-
fire order, though he saddled the bay mare in the dark morning 
without saying much. Dawn came glassy orange, stained from below 
by a gelatinous band of pale green. The sooty bulk of the mountain 
paled slowly until it was the same color as the smoke from Ennis's 
breakfast fire. The cold air sweetened, banded pebbles and crumbs 
of soil cast sudden pencil-long shadows and the rearing lodgepole 
pines below them massed in slabs of somber malachite. 
During the day Ennis looked across a great gulf and sometimes saw 
Jack, a small dot moving across a high meadow as an insect moves 
across a tablecloth; Jack, in his dark camp, saw Ennis as night fire, a 
red spark on the huge black mass of mountain. 
Jack came lagging in late one afternoon, drank his two bottles of 
beer cooled in a wet sack on the shady side of the tent, ate two bowls 
of stew, four of Ennis's stone biscuits, a can of peaches, rolled a 
smoke, watched the sun drop. 

"I'm commutin four hours a day," he said morosely. "Come in for 
breakfast, go back to the sheep, evenin get em bedded down, come 
in for supper, go back to the sheep, spend half the night jumpin up 
and checkin for coyotes. By rights I should be spendin the night 
here. Aguirre got no right a make me do this." 
"You want a switch?" said Ennis. "I wouldn't mind herdin. I 
wouldn't mind sleepin out there." 
"That ain't the point. Point is, we both should be in this camp. And 
that goddamn pup tent smells like cat piss or worse." 
"Wouldn't mind bein out there." 
"Tell you what, you got a get up a dozen times in the night out there 
over them coyotes. Happy to switch but give you warnin I can't cook 
worth a sh*t. Pretty good with a can opener." 
"Can't be no worse than me, then. Sure, I wouldn't mind a do it." 
They fended off the night for an hour with the yellow kerosene lamp 
and around ten Ennis rode Cigar Butt, a good night horse, through 
the glimmering frost back to the sheep, carrying leftover biscuits, a 
jar of jam and a jar of coffee with him for the next day saying he'd 
save a trip, stay out until supper. 
"Shot a coyote just first light," he told Jack the next evening, 
sloshing his face with hot water, lathering up soap and hoping his 
razor had some cut left in it, while Jack peeled potatoes. "Big son of 
a bitch. Balls on him size a apples. I bet he'd took a few lambs. 
Looked like he could a eat a camel. You want some a this hot water? 
There's plenty." 
"It's all yours." 
"Well, I'm goin a warsh everthing I can reach," he said, pulling off 
his boots and jeans (no drawers, no socks, Jack noticed), slopping 
the green washcloth around until the fire spat. 
They had a high-time supper by the fire, a can of beans each, fried 
potatoes and a quart of whiskey on shares, sat with their backs 
against a log, boot soles and copper jeans rivets hot, swapping the 
bottle while the lavender sky emptied of color and the chill air 

drained down, drinking, smoking cigarettes, getting up every now 
and then to piss, firelight throwing a sparkle in the arched stream, 
tossing sticks on the fire to keep the talk going, talking horses and 
rodeo, roughstock events, wrecks and injuries sustained, the 
submarine Thresher lost two months earlier with all hands and how 
it must have been in the last doomed minutes, dogs each had owned 
and known, the draft, Jack's home ranch where his father and mother 
held on, Ennis's family place folded years ago after his folks died, 
the older brother in Signal and a married sister in Casper. Jack said 
his father had been a pretty well known bullrider years back but kept 
his secrets to himself, never gave Jack a word of advice, never came 
once to see Jack ride, though he had put him on the woolies when he 
was a little kid. Ennis said the kind of riding that interested him 
lasted longer than eight seconds and had some point to it. Money's a 
good point, said Jack, and Ennis had to agree. They were respectful 
of each other's opinions, each glad to have a companion where none 
had been expected. Ennis, riding against the wind back to the sheep 
in the treacherous, drunken light, thought he'd never had such a good 
time, felt he could paw the white out of the moon. 
The summer went on and they moved the herd to new pasture, 
shifted the camp; the distance between the sheep and the new camp 
was greater and the night ride longer. Ennis rode easy, sleeping with 
his eyes open, but the hours he was away from the sheep stretched 
out and out. Jack pulled a squalling burr out of the harmonica, 
flattened a little from a fall off the skittish bay mare, and Ennis had a 
good raspy voice; a few nights they mangled their way through some 
songs. Ennis knew the salty words to "Strawberry Roan." Jack tried 
a Carl Perkins song, bawling "what I say-ay-ay," but he favored a 
sad hymn, "Water-Walking Jesus," learned from his mother who 
believed in the Pentecost, that he sang at dirge slowness, setting off 
distant coyote yips. 
"Too late to go out to them damn sheep," said Ennis, dizzy drunk on 
all fours one cold hour when the moon had notched past two. The 

meadow stones glowed white-green and a flinty wind worked over 
the meadow, scraped the fire low, then ruffled it into yellow silk 
sashes. "Got you a extra blanket I'll roll up out here and grab forty 
winks, ride out at first light." 
"Freeze your ass off when that fire dies down. Better off sleepin in 
the tent." 
"Doubt I'll feel nothin." But he staggered under canvas, pulled his 
boots off, snored on the ground cloth for a while, woke Jack with the 
clacking of his jaw. 
"Jesus Christ, quit hammerin and get over here. Bedroll's big 
enough," said Jack in an irritable sleep-clogged voice. It was big 
enough, warm enough, and in a little while they deepened their 
intimacy considerably. Ennis ran full-throttle on all roads whether 
fence mending or money spending, and he wanted none of it when 
Jack seized his left hand and brought it to his erect cock. Ennis 
jerked his hand away as though he'd touched fire, got to his knees, 
unbuckled his belt, shoved his pants down, hauled Jack onto all 
fours and, with the help of the clear slick and a little spit, entered 
him, nothing he'd done before but no instruction manual needed. 
They went at it in silence except for a few sharp intakes of breath 
and Jack's choked "gun's goin off," then out, down, and asleep. 
Ennis woke in red dawn with his pants around his knees, a top-grade 
headache, and Jack butted against him; without saying anything 
about it both knew how it would go for the rest of the summer, sheep 
be damned. 
As it did go. They never talked about the sex, let it happen, at first 
only in the tent at night, then in the full daylight with the hot sun 
striking down, and at evening in the fire glow, quick, rough, 
laughing and snorting, no lack of noises, but saying not a goddamn 
word except once Ennis said, "I'm not no queer," and Jack jumped in 
with "Me neither. A one-shot thing. Nobody's business but ours." 
There were only the two of them on the mountain flying in the 
euphoric, bitter air, looking down on the hawk's back and the 

crawling lights of vehicles on the plain below, suspended above 
ordinary affairs and distant from tame ranch dogs barking in the dark 
hours. They believed themselves invisible, not knowing Joe Aguirre 
had watched them through his 10x42 binoculars for ten minutes one 
day, waiting until they'd buttoned up their jeans, waiting until Ennis 
rode back to the sheep, before bringing up the message that Jack's 
people had sent word that his uncle Harold was in the hospital with 
pneumonia and expected not to make it. Though he did, and Aguirre 
came up again to say so, fixing Jack with his bold stare, not 
bothering to dismount. 
In August Ennis spent the whole night with Jack in the main camp 
and in a blowy hailstorm the sheep took off west and got among a 
herd in another allotment. There was a damn miserable time for five 
days, Ennis and a Chilean herder with no English trying to sort them 
out, the task almost impossible as the paint brands were worn and 
faint at this late season. Even when the numbers were right Ennis 
knew the sheep were mixed. In a disquieting way everything seemed 
mixed. 
The first snow came early, on August thirteenth, piling up a foot, but 
was followed by a quick melt. The next week Joe Aguirre sent word 
to bring them down --another, bigger storm was moving in from the 
Pacific --and they packed in the game and moved off the mountain 
with the sheep, stones rolling at their heels, purple cloud crowding in 
from the west and the metal smell of coming snow pressing them on. 
The mountain boiled with demonic energy, glazed with flickering 
broken-cloud light, the wind combed the grass and drew from the 
damaged krummholz and slit rock a bestial drone. As they 
descended the slope Ennis felt he was in a slow-motion, but 
headlong, irreversible fall. 
Joe Aguirre paid them, said little. He had looked at the milling sheep 
with a sour expression, said, "Some a these never went up there with 
you." The count was not what he'd hoped for either. Ranch stiffs 
never did much of a job. 

"You goin a do this next summer?" said Jack to Ennis in the street, 
one leg already up in his green pickup. The wind was gusting hard 
and cold. 
"Maybe not." A dust plume rose and hazed the air with fine grit and 
he squinted against it. "Like I said, Alma and me's gettin married in 
December. Try to get somethin on a ranch. You?" He looked away 
from Jack's jaw, bruised blue from the hard punch Ennis had thrown 
him on the last day. 
"If nothin better comes along. Thought some about going back up to 
my daddy's place, give him a hand over the winter, then maybe head 
out for Texas in the spring. If the draft don't get me." 
"Well, see you around, I guess." The wind tumbled an empty feed 
bag down the street until it fetched up under his truck. 
"Right," said Jack, and they shook hands, hit each other on the 
shoulder, then there was forty feet of distance between them and 
nothing to do but drive away in opposite directions. Within a mile 
Ennis felt like someone was pulling his guts out hand over hand a 
yard at a time. He stopped at the side of the road and, in the whirling 
new snow, tried to puke but nothing came up. He felt about as bad as 
he ever had and it took a long time for the feeling to wear off. 
In December Ennis married Alma Beers and had her pregnant by 
mid-January. He picked up a few short-lived ranch jobs, then settled 
in as a wrangler on the old Elwood Hi-Top place north of Lost Cabin 
in Washakie County. He was still working there in September when 
Alma Jr., as he called his daughter, was born and their bedroom was 
full of the smell of old blood and milk and baby sh*t, and the sounds 
were of squalling and sucking and Alma's sleepy groans, all 
reassuring of fecundity and life's continuance to one who worked 
with livestock. 
When the Hi-Top folded they moved to a small apartment in 
Riverton up over a laundry. Ennis got on the highway crew, 

tolerating it but working weekends at the Rafter B in exchange for
keeping his horses out there. The second girl was born and Alma
wanted to stay in town near the clinic because the child had an
asthmatic wheeze.
"Ennis, please, no more damn lonesome ranches for us," she said,
sitting on his lap, wrapping her thin, freckled arms around him.
"Let's get a place here in town?"
"I guess," said Ennis, slipping his hand up her blouse sleeve and
stirring the silky armpit hair, then easing her down, fingers moving
up her ribs to the jelly breast, over the round belly and knee and up
into the wet gap all the way to the north pole or the equator
depending which way you thought you were sailing, working at it
until she shuddered and bucked against his hand and he rolled her
over, did quickly what she hated. They stayed in the little apartment
which he favored because it could be left at any time.
The fourth summer since Brokeback Mountain came on and in June
Ennis had a general delivery letter from Jack Twist, the first sign of
life in all that time.
Friend this letter is a long time over due. Hope you get it. Heard you
was in Riverton. Im coming thru on the 24th, thought Id stop and
buy you a beer Drop me a line if you can, say if your there.
The return address was Childress, Texas. Ennis wrote back, you bet,
gave the Riverton address.
The day was hot and clear in the morning, but by noon the clouds
had pushed up out of the west rolling a little sultry air before them.
Ennis, wearing his best shirt, white with wide black stripes, didn't
know what time Jack would get there and so had taken the day off,
paced back and forth, looking down into a street pale with dust.
Alma was saying something about taking his friend to the Knife &
Fork for supper instead of cooking it was so hot, if they could get a
baby-sitter, but Ennis said more likely he'd just go out with Jack and
get drunk. Jack was not a restaurant type, he said, thinking of the

dirty spoons sticking out of the cans of cold beans balanced on the 
log. 
Late in the afternoon, thunder growling, that same old green pickup 
rolled in and he saw Jack get out of the truck, beat-up Resistol tilted 
back. A hot jolt scalded Ennis and he was out on the landing pulling 
the door closed behind him. Jack took the stairs two and two. They 
seized each other by the shoulders, hugged mightily, squeezing the 
breath out of each other, saying, son of a bitch, son of a bitch, then, 
and easily as the right key turns the lock tumblers, their mouths 
came together, and hard, Jack's big teeth bringing blood, his hat 
falling to the floor, stubble rasping, wet saliva welling, and the door 
opening and Alma looking out for a few seconds at Ennis's straining 
shoulders and shutting the door again and still they clinched, 
pressing chest and groin and thigh and leg together, treading on each 
other's toes until they pulled apart to breathe and Ennis, not big on 
endearments, said what he said to his horses and daughters, little 
darlin. 
The door opened again a few inches and Alma stood in the narrow 
light. 
What could he say? "Alma, this is Jack Twist, Jack, my wife Alma." 
His chest was heaving. He could smell Jack --the intensely familiar 
odor of cigarettes, musky sweat and a faint sweetness like grass, and 
with it the rushing cold of the mountain. "Alma," he said, "Jack and 
me ain't seen each other in four years." As if it were a reason. He 
was glad the light was dim on the landing but did not turn away from 
her. 
"Sure enough," said Alma in a low voice. She had seen what she had 
seen. Behind her in the room lightning lit the window like a white 
sheet waving and the baby cried. 
"You got a kid?" said Jack. His shaking hand grazed Ennis's hand, 
electrical current snapped between them. 
"Two little girls," Ennis said. "Alma Jr. and Francine. Love them to 
pieces." Alma's mouth twitched. 

"I got a boy," said Jack. "Eight months old. Tell you what, I married 
a cute little old Texas girl down in Childress --Lureen." From the 
vibration of the floorboard on which they both stood Ennis could 
feel how hard Jack was shaking. 
"Alma," he said. "Jack and me is goin out and get a drink. Might not 
get back tonight, we get drinkin and talkin." 
"Sure enough," Alma said, taking a dollar bill from her pocket. 
Ennis guessed she was going to ask him to get her a pack of 
cigarettes, bring him back sooner. 
"Please to meet you," said Jack, trembling like a run-out horse. 
"Ennis --" said Alma in her misery voice, but that didn't slow him 
down on the stairs and he called back, "Alma, you want smokes 
there's some in the pocket a my blue shirt in the bedroom." 
They went off in Jack's truck, bought a bottle of whiskey and within 
twenty minutes were in the Motel Siesta jouncing a bed. A few 
handfuls of hail rattled against the window followed by rain and 
slippery wind banging the unsecured door of the next room then and 
through the night. 
The room stank of semen and smoke and sweat and whiskey, of old 
carpet and sour hay, saddle leather, sh*t and cheap soap. Ennis lay 
spread-eagled, spent and wet, breathing deep, still half tumescent, 
Jack blowing forceful cigarette clouds like whale spouts, and Jack 
said, "Christ, it got a be all that time a yours ahorseback makes it so 
goddamn good. We got to talk about this. Swear to god I didn't 
know we was goin a get into this again --yeah, I did. Why I'm here. 
I f*ckin knew it. Redlined all the way, couldn't get here fast 
enough." 
"I didn't know where in the hell you was," said Ennis. "Four years. I 
about give up on you. I figured you was sore about that punch." 
"Friend," said Jack, "I was in Texas rodeoin. How I met Lureen. 
Look over on that chair." 

On the back of the soiled orange chair he saw the shine of a buckle. 
"Bullridin?" 
"Yeah. I made three f*ckin thousand dollars that year. f*ckin 
starved. Had to borrow everthing but a toothbrush from other guys. 
Drove grooves across Texas. Half the time under that cunt truck 
fixin it. Anyway, I didn't never think about losin. Lureen? There's 
some serious money there. Her old man's got it. Got this farm 
machinery business. Course he don't let her have none a the money, 
and he hates my f*ckin guts, so it's a hard go now but one a these 
days --" 
"Well, you're goin a go where you look. Army didn't get you?" The 
thunder sounded far to the east, moving from them in its red wreaths 
of light. 
"They can't get no use out a me. Got some crushed vertebrates. And 
a stress fracture, the arm bone here, you know how bullridin you're 
always leverin it off your thigh? --she gives a little ever time you do 
it. Even if you tape it good you break it a little goddamn bit at a 
time. Tell you what, hurts like a bitch afterwards. Had a busted leg. 
Busted in three places. Come off the bull and it was a big bull with a 
lot a drop, he got rid a me in about three flat and he come after me 
and he was sure faster. Lucky enough. Friend a mine got his oil 
checked with a horn dipstick and that was all she wrote. Bunch a 
other things, f*ckin busted ribs, sprains and pains, torn ligaments. 
See, it ain't like it was in my daddy's time. It's guys with money go to 
college, trained athaletes. You got a have some money to rodeo now. 
Lureen's old man wouldn't give me a dime if I dropped it, except one 
way. And I know enough about the game now so I see that I ain't 
never goin a be on the bubble. Other reasons. I'm gettin out while I 
still can walk." 
Ennis pulled Jack's hand to his mouth, took a hit from the cigarette, 
exhaled. "Sure as hell seem in one piece to me. You know, I was 
sittin up here all that time tryin to figure out if I was --? I know I 
ain't. I mean here we both got wives and kids, right? I like doin it 

with women, yeah, but Jesus H., ain't nothin like this. I never had no 
thoughts a doin it with another guy except I sure wrang it out a 
hunderd times thinkin about you. You do it with other guys? Jack?" 
"sh*t no," said Jack, who had been riding more than bulls, not 
rolling his own. "You know that. Old Brokeback got us good and it 
sure ain't over. We got a work out what the f*ck we're goin a do 
now." 
"That summer," said Ennis. "When we split up after we got paid out 
I had gut cramps so bad I pulled over and tried to puke, thought I ate 
somethin bad at that place in Dubois. Took me about a year a figure 
out it was that I shouldn't a let you out a my sights. Too late then by 
a long, long while." 
"Friend," said Jack. "We got us a f*ckin situation here. Got a figure 
out what to do." 
"I doubt there's nothin now we can do," said Ennis. "What I'm sayin, 
Jack, I built a life up in them years. Love my little girls. Alma? It 
ain't her fault. You got your baby and wife, that place in Texas. You 
and me can't hardly be decent together if what happened back there" 
--he jerked his head in the direction of the apartment --"grabs on us 
like that. We do that in the wrong place we'll be dead. There's no 
reins on this one. It scares the piss out a me." 
"Got to tell you, friend, maybe somebody seen us that summer. I was 
back there the next June, thinkin about goin back --I didn't, lit out 
for Texas instead --and Joe Aguirre's in the office and he says to 
me, he says, 'You boys found a way to make the time pass up there, 
didn't you,' and I give him a look but when I went out I seen he had a 
big-ass pair a binoculars hangin off his rearview." He neglected to 
add that the foreman had leaned back in his squeaky wooden tilt 
chair, said, Twist, you guys wasn't gettin paid to leave the dogs 
baby-sit the sheep while you stemmed the rose, and declined to 
rehire him. He went on, "Yeah, that little punch a yours surprised 
me. I never figured you to throw a dirty punch." 

"I come up under my brother K.E., three years older'n me, slugged 
me silly ever day. Dad got tired a me come bawlin in the house and 
when I was about six he set me down and says, Ennis, you got a 
problem and you got a fix it or it's gonna be with you until you're 
ninety and K.E.'s ninety-three. Well, I says, he's bigger'n me. Dad 
says, you got a take him unawares, don't say nothin to him, make 
him feel some pain, get out fast and keep doin it until he takes the 
message. Nothin like hurtin somebody to make him hear good. So I 
did. I got him in the outhouse, jumped him on the stairs, come over 
to his pillow in the night while he was sleepin and pasted him damn 
good. Took about two days. Never had trouble with K.E. since. The 
lesson was, don't say nothin and get it over with quick." A telephone 
rang in the next room, rang on and on, stopped abruptly in mid-peal. 
"You won't catch me again," said Jack. "Listen. I'm thinkin, tell you 
what, if you and me had a little ranch together, little cow and calf 
operation, your horses, it'd be some sweet life. Like I said, I'm gettin 
out a rodeo. I ain't no broke-dick rider but I don't got the bucks a ride 
out this slump I'm in and I don't got the bones a keep gettin wrecked. 
I got it figured, got this plan, Ennis, how we can do it, you and me. 
Lureen's old man, you bet he'd give me a bunch if I'd get lost. 
Already more or less said it --" 
"Whoa, whoa, whoa. It ain't goin a be that way. We can't. I'm stuck 
with what I got, caught in my own loop. Can't get out of it. Jack, I 
don't want a be like them guys you see around sometimes. And I 
don't want a be dead. There was these two old guys ranched together 
down home, Earl and Rich --Dad would pass a remark when he seen 
them. They was a joke even though they was pretty tough old birds. 
I was what, nine years old and they found Earl dead in a irrigation 
ditch. They'd took a tire iron to him, spurred him up, drug him 
around by his dick until it pulled off, just bloody pulp. What the tire 
iron done looked like pieces a burned tomatoes all over him, nose 
tore down from skiddin on gravel." 
"You seen that?" 

"Dad made sure I seen it. Took me to see it. Me and K.E. Dad 
laughed about it. Hell, for all I know he done the job. If he was alive 
and was to put his head in that door right now you bet he'd go get his 
tire iron. Two guys livin together? No. All I can see is we get 
together once in a while way the hell out in the back a nowhere --" 
"How much is once in a while?" said Jack. "Once in a while ever 
four f*ckin years?" 
"No," said Ennis, forbearing to ask whose fault that was. "I goddamn 
hate it that you're goin a drive away in the mornin and I'm goin back 
to work. But if you can't fix it you got a stand it," he said. "sh*t. I 
been lookin at people on the street. This happen a other people? 
What the hell do they do?" 
"It don't happen in Wyomin and if it does I don't know what they do, 
maybe go to Denver," said Jack, sitting up, turning away from him, 
"and I don't give a flyin f*ck. Son of a bitch, Ennis, take a couple 
days off. Right now. Get us out a here. Throw your stuff in the back 
a my truck and let's get up in the mountains. Couple a days. Call 
Alma up and tell her you're goin. Come on, Ennis, you just shot my 
airplane out a the sky --give me somethin a go on. This ain't no little 
thing that's happenin here." 
The hollow ringing began again in the next room, and as if he were 
answering it, Ennis picked up the phone on the bedside table, dialed 
his own number. 
A slow corrosion worked between Ennis and Alma, no real trouble, 
just widening water. She was working at a grocery store clerk job, 
saw she'd always have to work to keep ahead of the bills on what 
Ennis made. Alma asked Ennis to use rubbers because she dreaded 
another pregnancy. He said no to that, said he would be happy to 
leave her alone if she didn't want any more of his kids. Under her 
breath she said, "I'd have em if you'd support em." And under that, 
thought, anyway, what you like to do don't make too many babies. 

Her resentment opened out a little every year: the embrace she had 
glimpsed, Ennis's fishing trips once or twice a year with Jack Twist 
and never a vacation with her and the girls, his disinclination to step 
out and have any fun, his yearning for low paid, long-houred ranch 
work, his propensity to roll to the wall and sleep as soon as he hit the 
bed, his failure to look for a decent permanent job with the county or 
the power company, put her in a long, slow dive and when Alma Jr. 
was nine and Francine seven she said, what am I doin hangin around 
with him, divorced Ennis and married the Riverton grocer. 
Ennis went back to ranch work, hired on here and there, not getting 
much ahead but glad enough to be around stock again, free to drop 
things, quit if he had to, and go into the mountains at short notice. 
He had no serious hard feelings, just a vague sense of getting 
shortchanged, and showed it was all right by taking Thanksgiving 
dinner with Alma and her grocer and the kids, sitting between his 
girls and talking horses to them, telling jokes, trying not to be a sad 
daddy. After the pie Alma got him off in the kitchen, scraped the 
plates and said she worried about him and he ought to get married 
again. He saw she was pregnant, about four, five months, he 
guessed. 
"Once burned," he said, leaning against the counter, feeling too big 
for the room. 
"You still go fishin with that Jack Twist?" 
"Some." He thought she'd take the pattern off the plate with the 
scraping. 
"You know," she said, and from her tone he knew something was 
coming, "I used to wonder how come you never brought any trouts 
home. Always said you caught plenty. So one time I got your creel 
case open the night before you went on one a your little trips --price 
tag still on it after five years --and I tied a note on the end of the 
line. It said, hello Ennis, bring some fish home, love, Alma. And 
then you come back and said you'd caught a bunch a browns and ate 
them up. Remember? I looked in the case when I got a chance and 

there was my note still tied there and that line hadn't touched water 
in its life." As though the word "water" had called out its domestic 
cousin she twisted the faucet, sluiced the plates. 
"That don't mean nothin." 
"Don't lie, don't try to fool me, Ennis. I know what it means. Jack 
Twist? Jack Nasty. You and him --" 
She'd overstepped his line. He seized her wrist; tears sprang and 
rolled, a dish clattered. 
"Shut up," he said. "Mind your own business. You don't know 
nothin about it." 
"I'm goin a yell for Bill." 
"You f*ckin go right ahead. Go on and f*ckin yell. I'll make him eat 
the f*ckin floor and you too." He gave another wrench that left her 
with a burning bracelet, shoved his hat on backwards and slammed 
out. He went to the Black and Blue Eagle bar that night, got drunk, 
had a short dirty fight and left. He didn't try to see his girls for a long 
time, figuring they would look him up when they got the sense and 
years to move out from Alma. 
They were no longer young men with all of it before them. Jack had 
filled out through the shoulders and hams, Ennis stayed as lean as a 
clothes-pole, stepped around in worn boots, jeans and shirts summer 
and winter, added a canvas coat in cold weather. A benign growth 
appeared on his eyelid and gave it a drooping appearance, a broken 
nose healed crooked. 
Years on years they worked their way through the high meadows 
and mountain drainages, horse-packing into the Big Horns, 
Medicine Bows, south end of the Gallatins, Absarokas, Granites, 
Owl Creeks, the Bridger-Teton Range, the Freezeouts and the 
Shirleys, Ferrises and the Rattlesnakes, Salt River Range, into the 
Wind Rivers over and again, the Sierra Madres, Gros Ventres, the 
Washakies, Laramies, but never returning to Brokeback. 

Down in Texas Jack's father-in-law died and Lureen, who inherited 
the farm equipment business, showed a skill for management and 
hard deals. Jack found himself with a vague managerial title, 
traveling to stock and agricultural machinery shows. He had some 
money now and found ways to spend it on his buying trips. A little 
Texas accent flavored his sentences, "cow" twisted into "kyow" and 
"wife" coming out as "waf." He'd had his front teeth filed down and 
capped, said he'd felt no pain, and to finish the job grew a heavy 
mustache. 
In May of 1983 they spent a few cold days at a series of little 
icebound, no-name high lakes, then worked across into the Hail 
Strew River drainage. 
Going up, the day was fine but the trail deep-drifted and slopping 
wet at the margins. They left it to wind through a slashy cut, leading 
the horses through brittle branchwood, Jack, the same eagle feather 
in his old hat, lifting his head in the heated noon to take the air 
scented with resinous lodgepole, the dry needle duff and hot rock, 
bitter juniper crushed beneath the horses' hooves. Ennis, weathereyed, 
looked west for the heated cumulus that might come up on 
such a day but the boneless blue was so deep, said Jack, that he 
might drown looking up. 
Around three they swung through a narrow pass to a southeast slope 
where the strong spring sun had had a chance to work, dropped 
down to the trail again which lay snowless below them. They could 
hear the river muttering and making a distant train sound a long way 
off. Twenty minutes on they surprised a black bear on the bank 
above them rolling a log over for grubs and Jack's horse shied and 
reared, Jack saying "Wo! Wo!" and Ennis's bay dancing and snorting 
but holding. Jack reached for the .30-.06 but there was no need; the 
startled bear galloped into the trees with the lumpish gait that made 
it seem it was falling apart. 

The tea-colored river ran fast with snowmelt, a scarf of bubbles at 
every high rock, pools and setbacks streaming. The ochre-branched 
willows swayed stiffly, pollened catkins like yellow thumbprints. 
The horses drank and Jack dismounted, scooped icy water up in his 
hand, crystalline drops falling from his fingers, his mouth and chin 
glistening with wet. 
"Get beaver fever doin that," said Ennis, then, "Good enough place," 
looking at the level bench above the river, two or three fire-rings 
from old hunting camps. A sloping meadow rose behind the bench, 
protected by a stand of lodgepole. There was plenty of dry wood. 
They set up camp without saying much, picketed the horses in the 
meadow. Jack broke the seal on a bottle of whiskey, took a long, hot 
swallow, exhaled forcefully, said, "That's one a the two things I need 
right now," capped and tossed it to Ennis. 
On the third morning there were the clouds Ennis had expected, a 
grey racer out of the west, a bar of darkness driving wind before it 
and small flakes. It faded after an hour into tender spring snow that 
heaped wet and heavy. By nightfall it turned colder. Jack and Ennis 
passed a joint back and forth, the fire burning late, Jack restless and 
bitching about the cold, poking the flames with a stick, twisting the 
dial of the transistor radio until the batteries died. 
Ennis said he'd been putting the blocks to a woman who worked 
part-time at the Wolf Ears bar in Signal where he was working now 
for Stoutamire's cow and calf outfit, but it wasn't going anywhere 
and she had some problems he didn't want. Jack said he'd had a thing 
going with the wife of a rancher down the road in Childress and for 
the last few months he'd slank around expecting to get shot by 
Lureen or the husband, one. Ennis laughed a little and said he 
probably deserved it. Jack said he was doing all right but he missed 
Ennis bad enough sometimes to make him whip babies. 
The horses nickered in the darkness beyond the fire's circle of light. 
Ennis put his arm around Jack, pulled him close, said he saw his 
girls about once a month, Alma Jr. a shy seventeen-year-old with his 

beanpole length, Francine a little live wire. Jack slid his cold hand 
between Ennis's legs, said he was worried about his boy who was, 
no doubt about it, dyslexic or something, couldn't get anything right, 
fifteen years old and couldn't hardly read, he could see it though 
goddamn Lureen wouldn't admit to it and pretended the kid was o.k., 
refused to get any bitchin kind a help about it. He didn't know what 
the f*ck the answer was. Lureen had the money and called the shots. 
"I used a want a boy for a kid," said Ennis, undoing buttons, "but 
just got little girls." 
"I didn't want none a either kind," said Jack. "But f*ck-all has 
worked the way I wanted. Nothin never come to my hand the right 
way." Without getting up he threw deadwood on the fire, the sparks 
flying up with their truths and lies, a few hot points of fire landing 
on their hands and faces, not for the first time, and they rolled down 
into the dirt. One thing never changed: the brilliant charge of their 
infrequent couplings was darkened by the sense of time flying, never 
enough time, never enough. 
A day or two later in the trailhead parking lot, horses loaded into the 
trailer, Ennis was ready to head back to Signal, Jack up to Lightning 
Flat to see the old man. Ennis leaned into Jack's window, said what 
he'd been putting off the whole week, that likely he couldn't get 
away again until November after they'd shipped stock and before 
winter feeding started. 
"November. What in hell happened a August? Tell you what, we 
said August, nine, ten days. Christ, Ennis! Whyn't you tell me this 
before? You had a f*ckin week to say some little word about it. And 
why's it we're always in the friggin cold weather? We ought a do 
somethin. We ought a go south. We ought a go to Mexico one day." 
"Mexico? Jack, you know me. All the travelin I ever done is goin 
around the coffeepot lookin for the handle. And I'll be runnin the 
baler all August, that's what's the matter with August. Lighten up, 
Jack. We can hunt in November, kill a nice elk. Try if I can get Don 
Wroe's cabin again. We had a good time that year." 

"You know, friend, this is a goddamn bitch of a unsatisfactory 
situation. You used a come away easy. It's like seein the pope now." 
"Jack, I got a work. Them earlier days I used a quit the jobs. You got 
a wife with money, a good job. You forget how it is bein broke all 
the time. You ever hear a child support? I been payin out for years 
and got more to go. Let me tell you, I can't quit this one. And I can't 
get the time off. It was tough gettin this time --some a them late 
heifers is still calvin. You don't leave then. You don't. Stoutamire is 
a hell-raiser and he raised hell about me takin the week. I don't 
blame him. He probly ain't got a night's sleep since I left. The tradeoff 
was August. You got a better idea?" 
"I did once." The tone was bitter and accusatory. 
Ennis said nothing, straightened up slowly, rubbed at his forehead; a 
horse stamped inside the trailer. He walked to his truck, put his hand 
on the trailer, said something that only the horses could hear, turned 
and walked back at a deliberate pace. 
"You been a Mexico, Jack?" Mexico was the place. He'd heard. He 
was cutting fence now, trespassing in the shoot-em zone. 
"Hell yes, I been. Where's the f*ckin problem?" Braced for it all 
these years and here it came, late and unexpected. 
"I got a say this to you one time, Jack, and I ain't foolin. What I don't 
know," said Ennis, "all them things I don't know could get you killed 
if I should come to know them." 
"Try this one," said Jack, "and I'll say it just one time. Tell you what, 
we could a had a good life together, a f*ckin real good life. You 
wouldn't do it, Ennis, so what we got now is Brokeback Mountain. 
Everthing built on that. It's all we got, boy, f*ckin all, so I hope you 
know that if you don't never know the rest. Count the damn few 
times we been together in twenty years. Measure the f*ckin short 
leash you keep me on, then ask me about Mexico and then tell me 
you'll kill me for needin it and not hardly never gettin it. You got no 
f*ckin idea how bad it gets. I'm not you. I can't make it on a couple a 

high-altitude f*cks once or twice a year. You're too much for me, 
Ennis, you son of a whoreson bitch. I wish I knew how to quit you." 
Like vast clouds of steam from thermal springs in winter the years of 
things unsaid and now unsayable --admissions, declarations, 
shames, guilts, fears --rose around them. Ennis stood as if heartshot, 
face grey and deep-lined, grimacing, eyes screwed shut, fists 
clenched, legs caving, hit the ground on his knees. 
"Jesus," said Jack. "Ennis?" But before he was out of the truck, 
trying to guess if it was heart attack or the overflow of an incendiary 
rage, Ennis was back on his feet and somehow, as a coat hanger is 
straightened to open a locked car and then bent again to its original 
shape, they torqued things almost to where they had been, for what 
they'd said was no news. Nothing ended, nothing begun, nothing 
resolved. 
What Jack remembered and craved in a way he could neither help 
nor understand was the time that distant summer on Brokeback when 
Ennis had come up behind him and pulled him close, the silent 
embrace satisfying some shared and sexless hunger. 
They had stood that way for a long time in front of the fire, its 
burning tossing ruddy chunks of light, the shadow of their bodies a 
single column against the rock. The minutes ticked by from the 
round watch in Ennis's pocket, from the sticks in the fire settling into 
coals. Stars bit through the wavy heat layers above the fire. Ennis's 
breath came slow and quiet, he hummed, rocked a little in the 
sparklight and Jack leaned against the steady heartbeat, the 
vibrations of the humming like faint electricity and, standing, he fell 
into sleep that was not sleep but something else drowsy and tranced 
until Ennis, dredging up a rusty but still useable phrase from the 
childhood time before his mother died, said, "Time to hit the hay, 
cowboy. I got a go. Come on, you're sleepin on your feet like a 
horse," and gave Jack a shake, a push, and went off in the darkness. 

Jack heard his spurs tremble as he mounted, the words "see you 
tomorrow," and the horse's shuddering snort, grind of hoof on stone. 
Later, that dozy embrace solidified in his memory as the single 
moment of artless, charmed happiness in their separate and difficult 
lives. Nothing marred it, even the knowledge that Ennis would not 
then embrace him face to face because he did not want to see nor 
feel that it was Jack he held. And maybe, he thought, they'd never 
got much farther than that. Let be, let be. 
Ennis didn't know about the accident for months until his postcard to 
Jack saying that November still looked like the first chance came 
back stamped DECEASED. He called Jack's number in Childress, 
something he had done only once before when Alma divorced him 
and Jack had misunderstood the reason for the call, had driven 
twelve hundred miles north for nothing. This would be all right, Jack 
would answer, had to answer. But he did not. It was Lureen and she 
said who? who is this? and when he told her again she said in a level 
voice yes, Jack was pumping up a flat on the truck out on a back 
road when the tire blew up. The bead was damaged somehow and 
the force of the explosion slammed the rim into his face, broke his 
nose and jaw and knocked him unconscious on his back. By the time 
someone came along he had drowned in his own blood. 
No, he thought, they got him with the tire iron. 
"Jack used to mention you," she said. "You're the fishing buddy or 
the hunting buddy, I know that. Would have let you know," she said, 
"but I wasn't sure about your name and address. Jack kept most a his 
friends' addresses in his head. It was a terrible thing. He was only 
thirty-nine years old." 
The huge sadness of the northern plains rolled down on him. He 
didn't know which way it was, the tire iron or a real accident, blood 
choking down Jack's throat and nobody to turn him over. Under the 
wind drone he heard steel slamming off bone, the hollow chatter of a 
settling tire rim. 

"He buried down there?" He wanted to curse her for letting Jack die 
on the dirt road. 
The little Texas voice came slip-sliding down the wire. "We put a 
stone up. He use to say he wanted to be cremated, ashes scattered on 
Brokeback Mountain. I didn't know where that was. So he was 
cremated, like he wanted, and like I say, half his ashes was interred 
here, and the rest I sent up to his folks. I thought Brokeback 
Mountain was around where he grew up. But knowing Jack, it might 
be some pretend place where the bluebirds sing and there's a 
whiskey spring." 
"We herded sheep on Brokeback one summer," said Ennis. He could 
hardly speak. 
"Well, he said it was his place. I thought he meant to get drunk. 
Drink whiskey up there. He drank a lot." 
"His folks still up in Lightnin Flat?" 
"Oh yeah. They'll be there until they die. I never met them. They 
didn't come down for the funeral. You get in touch with them. I 
suppose they'd appreciate it if his wishes was carried out." 
No doubt about it, she was polite but the little voice was cold as 
snow. 
The road to Lightning Flat went through desolate country past a 
dozen abandoned ranches distributed over the plain at eight-and tenmile 
intervals, houses sitting blank-eyed in the weeds, corral fences 
down. The mailbox read John C. Twist. The ranch was a meagre 
little place, leafy spurge taking over. The stock was too far distant 
for him to see their condition, only that they were black baldies. A 
porch stretched across the front of the tiny brown stucco house, four 
rooms, two down, two up. 
Ennis sat at the kitchen table with Jack's father. Jack's mother, stout 
and careful in her movements as though recovering from an 
operation, said, "Want some coffee, don't you? Piece a cherry cake?" 

"Thank you, ma'am, I'll take a cup a coffee but I can't eat no cake 
just now." 
The old man sat silent, his hands folded on the plastic tablecloth, 
staring at Ennis with an angry, knowing expression. Ennis 
recognized in him a not uncommon type with the hard need to be the 
stud duck in the pond. He couldn't see much of Jack in either one of 
them, took a breath. 
"I feel awful bad about Jack. Can't begin to say how bad I feel. I 
knew him a long time. I come by to tell you that if you want me to 
take his ashes up there on Brokeback like his wife says he wanted I'd 
be proud to." 
There was a silence. Ennis cleared his throat but said nothing more. 
The old man said, "Tell you what, I know where Brokeback 
Mountain is. He thought he was too goddamn special to be buried in 
the family plot." 
Jack's mother ignored this, said, "He used a come home every year, 
even after he was married and down in Texas, and help his daddy on 
the ranch for a week fix the gates and mow and all. I kept his room 
like it was when he was a boy and I think he appreciated that. You 
are welcome to go up in his room if you want." 
The old man spoke angrily. "I can't get no help out here. Jack used a 
say, 'Ennis del Mar,' he used a say, 'I'm goin a bring him up here one 
a these days and we'll lick this damn ranch into shape.' He had some 
half-baked idea the two a you was goin a move up here, build a log 
cabin and help me run this ranch and bring it up. Then, this spring 
he's got another one's goin a come up here with him and build a 
place and help run the ranch, some ranch neighbor a his from down 
in Texas. He's goin a split up with his wife and come back here. So 
he says. But like most a Jack's ideas it never come to pass." 
So now he knew it had been the tire iron. He stood up, said, you bet 
he'd like to see Jack's room, recalled one of Jack's stories about this 
old man. Jack was dick-clipped and the old man was not; it bothered 
the son who had discovered the anatomical disconformity during a 

hard scene. He had been about three or four, he said, always late 
getting to the toilet, struggling with buttons, the seat, the height of 
the thing and often as not left the surroundings sprinkled down. The 
old man blew up about it and this one time worked into a crazy rage. 
"Christ, he licked the stuffin out a me, knocked me down on the 
bathroom floor, whipped me with his belt. I thought he was killin 
me. Then he says, 'You want a know what it's like with piss all over 
the place? I'll learn you,' and he pulls it out and lets go all over me, 
soaked me, then he throws a towel at me and makes me mop up the 
floor, take my clothes off and warsh them in the bathtub, warsh out 
the towel, I'm bawlin and blubberin. But while he was hosin me 
down I seen he had some extra material that I was missin. I seen 
they'd cut me different like you'd crop a ear or scorch a brand. No 
way to get it right with him after that." 
The bedroom, at the top of a steep stair that had its own climbing 
rhythm, was tiny and hot, afternoon sun pounding through the west 
window, hitting the narrow boy's bed against the wall, an ink-stained 
desk and wooden chair, a b.b. gun in a hand-whittled rack over the 
bed. The window looked down on the gravel road stretching south 
and it occurred to him that for his growing-up years that was the 
only road Jack knew. An ancient magazine photograph of some 
dark-haired movie star was taped to the wall beside the bed, the skin 
tone gone magenta. He could hear Jack's mother downstairs running 
water, filling the kettle and setting it back on the stove, asking the 
old man a muffled question. 
The closet was a shallow cavity with a wooden rod braced across, a 
faded cretonne curtain on a string closing it off from the rest of the 
room. In the closet hung two pairs of jeans crease-ironed and folded 
neatly over wire hangers, on the floor a pair of worn packer boots he 
thought he remembered. At the north end of the closet a tiny jog in 
the wall made a slight hiding place and here, stiff with long 
suspension from a nail, hung a shirt. He lifted it off the nail. Jack's 
old shirt from Brokeback days. The dried blood on the sleeve was 

his own blood, a gushing nosebleed on the last afternoon on the 
mountain when Jack, in their contortionistic grappling and wrestling, 
had slammed Ennis's nose hard with his knee. He had staunched the 
blood which was everywhere, all over both of them, with his 
shirtsleeve, but the staunching hadn't held because Ennis had 
suddenly swung from the deck and laid the ministering angel out in 
the wild columbine, wings folded. 
The shirt seemed heavy until he saw there was another shirt inside it, 
the sleeves carefully worked down inside Jack's sleeves. It was his 
own plaid shirt, lost, he'd thought, long ago in some damn laundry, 
his dirty shirt, the pocket ripped, buttons missing, stolen by Jack and 
hidden here inside Jack's own shirt, the pair like two skins, one 
inside the other, two in one. He pressed his face into the fabric and 
breathed in slowly through his mouth and nose, hoping for the 
faintest smoke and mountain sage and salty sweet stink of Jack but 
there was no real scent, only the memory of it, the imagined power 
of Brokeback Mountain of which nothing was left but what he held 
in his hands. 
In the end the stud duck refused to let Jack's ashes go. "Tell you 
what, we got a family plot and he's goin in it." Jack's mother stood at 
the table coring apples with a sharp, serrated instrument. "You come 
again," she said. 
Bumping down the washboard road Ennis passed the country 
cemetery fenced with sagging sheep wire, a tiny fenced square on 
the welling prairie, a few graves bright with plastic flowers, and 
didn't want to know Jack was going in there, to be buried on the 
grieving plain. 
A few weeks later on the Saturday he threw all Stoutamire's dirty 
horse blankets into the back of his pickup and took them down to the 
Quik Stop Car Wash to turn the high-pressure spray on them. When 


the wet clean blankets were stowed in the truck bed he stepped into 
Higgins's gift shop and busied himself with the postcard rack. 
"Ennis, what are you lookin for rootin through them postcards?" said 
Linda Higgins, throwing a sopping brown coffee filter into the 
garbage can. 
"Scene a Brokeback Mountain." 
"Over in Fremont County?" 
"No, north a here." 
"I didn't order none a them. Let me get the order list. They got it I 
can get you a hunderd. I got a order some more cards anyway." 
"One's enough," said Ennis. 
When it came --thirty cents --he pinned it up in his trailer, brassheaded 
tack in each corner. Below it he drove a nail and on the nail 
he hung the wire hanger and the two old shirts suspended from it. He 
stepped back and looked at the ensemble through a few stinging 
tears. 
"Jack, I swear --" he said, though Jack had never asked him to swear 
anything and was himself not the swearing kind. 
Around that time Jack began to appear in his dreams, Jack as he had 
first seen him, curly-headed and smiling and bucktoothed, talking 
about getting up off his pockets and into the control zone, but the 
can of beans with the spoon handle jutting out and balanced on the 
log was there as well, in a cartoon shape and lurid colors that gave 
the dreams a flavor of comic obscenity. The spoon handle was the 
kind that could be used as a tire iron. And he would wake sometimes 
in grief, sometimes with the old sense of joy and release; the pillow 
sometimes wet, sometimes the sheets. 
There was some open space between what he knew and what he 
tried to believe, but nothing could be done about it, and if you can't 
fix it you've got to stand it. 



TXT http://www.txtdown.com 
,24